# Fragile Development

Florian Haas, FrOSCon 2016

florian@hastexo.com | @xahteiwi


`_____`'s roles, artifacts, events, and rules are _immutable_ and
although implementing only parts of `_____` is possible, _the result
is not_ `_____`.

Note: Tell me what this statement evokes for you. If you're wired like
me, it sounds like something out of a radical political manifesto, or
maybe an extremely strict religious sect or cult.


`Scrum`'s roles, artifacts, events, and rules are _immutable_ and
although implementing only parts of `Scrum` is possible, _the result
is not_ `Scrum`.

Note: This is taken directly [from the Scrum
guide](http://www.scrumguides.org/scrum-guide.html#endnote), CC-BY-SA
4.0, written by Ken Schwaber and Jeff Sutherland (and contributors)


_What is Scrum, even?_

Note: Scrum is "a framework for developing and sustaining complex
products" or "a framework within which people can address complex
adaptive problems, while productively and creatively delivering
products of the highest possible value" by [its own
definitions](http://www.scrumguides.org/scrum-guide.html), and "an
iterative and incremental agile software development framework for
managing product development" by
[Wikipedia's](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scrum_(software_development)).

Schwaber and Sutherland, frequently referred to as
"Ken and Jeff", first presented Scrum in 1995. It had previously been
"tried and refined" at places like Individual Inc. (now a part of
Reuters), Fidelity Investments, and IDX systems (now a part of GE
Healthcare).


_What is Scrum like?_

Note: Interestingly, Scrum's own creators put something into the Scrum
Guide that should set off a few alarm bells.


What is Scrum like?

_Lightweight_

_Simple to understand_

_Difficult to master_

Note: Translation: we're not actually defining a lot, we're describing
it in simple terms, and it's quite possible you're still too dumb to
do it right.


_What does Scrum postulate?_


What does Scrum postulate?

_... and does any of it make sense?_


Teams self-organize


Teams self-organize

_if they are stable._


Sprint after sprint after sprint.


Sprint after sprint after sprint.

_Try that in a marathon._


Daily scrum.


Daily scrum.

_What planet do you live on?_


No planning beyond the current sprint.


No planning beyond the current sprint.

_This only works if you have zero customers._


Reasonable for emergencies.


Reasonable for emergencies.

If your team is permanently in an emergency, _quit._


Waterfall is bad. Scrum is novel.


Waterfall is bad. Scrum is novel.

_Not since 1975, really._


<!-- .slide: data-background-image="http://s7.computerhistory.org/is/image/CHM/102676577-05-01?$re-medium$" data-background-size="contain" -->


If `Scrum` doesn't work with your team, your problem is your team.


If `Scrum` doesn't work with your team, your problem is your team.

Nope. _Your problem is `Scrum`._


If `Scrum` miserably fails to deliver in your organization, it's
because you're doing it wrong.


If `Scrum` miserably fails to deliver in your organization, it's
because you're doing it wrong.

Nope. _This only happens if you're doing it right._


_Don't be a scrumbag._